# estimation-of-data-in-graph-signals
Estimation of values in graph signals by solving an optimization problem.
<dt>justify frrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr</dt>
<dd>Over the years the amount of data has been growing, being necessary to know how to use it to generate benefits for society. Temperature, humidity, rainfall, for example, can be used by farmers to decide when and where to plant or harvest. This information, besides the numerical value, is linked to space. Note that a climatological measurement is made for a specific point in the territory. Although the classical signal processing theory is well established, the signals in question are of regular domain, that is, there is a well-defined sequence of the elements in the domain. The signal over time is an example of regular domain signal. To deal with signals whose structure is not regular, graph signal processing arises. It is a generalization of the techniques already known in digital signal processing. The graph signal is constructed by assigning values to the vertices of a graph. In this paper, one illustrates the application of graph signal processing to the estimation of signal samples. The method, which involves an optimization problem, is applicable to smooth signals, such as signals from climatological measurements and signal strength Wi-Fi. The estimation was performed in two distinct practical scenarios. First of, using a signal media temperature index signal from the northeast region, a graph signal was constructed and samples values in locations where the signal was known were estimated and the result compared. Then, the same procedure was made, now using the Wi-Fi signal strength available from UFPE (Federal University of Pernambuco). The Wi-Fi signal was measured in the vicinity of CAC (Center for Arts and Communication) and CTG (Center for Technology and Geosciences). Finally, the results of the simulations suggest that the applicability of the method in scenarios similar to that considered is promising.
</dd>
